Hadoop (HDFS & YARN)
--------------------

1. What are the main Services or Daemons in Hadoop? 

2. How to store a file from Edge Node to HDFS? 

3. What is the background process when you run hdfs dfs -put <source_file> <target_location_on_hdfs>? 

4. What is the concept called Rack Awareness? 

5. What is the concept called Data Locality? 

6. How Block Replicas are stored on the nodes based on Rack Awareness? 

7. What is your cluster capacity in terms of Storage Capacity, Number of Nodes, Number of Cores & Total Memory? 

8. What is an Application Master? 

9. What is a Driver Program? 

10. What is the difference between Yarn Client and Yarn Cluster mode? 

11. What is the advantage of using Yarn Cluster mode over client mode for jobs running in Production? 

12. What is block size in your cluster? 

13. As Hadoop 2.x or YARN allows us to execute / run non-map-reduce jobs like Spark Applications. So when we submit a Application to YARN then who or what process will decide to run / execute a Spark Application or a Map Reduce Application??? 

14. In HDFS if the replication factor is 3. Then what is the meaning: Is it the File replicated, or Block replicated 3 times? 

Hive
----

1. How many types of tables are allowed to be created in Hive? 

2. What is the difference between Managed & External table? 

3. Scenario, in which case you go with a Managed and in which case with External Table? 

4. What is the concept of Partitioning and Bucketing in Hive? 

5. Query: Write a Query to create an External Table with below requirements?  

    - Table Name: Employees 

    - Columns: eid, ename, eage, esalary, edept 

    - Partition Column: edept 

    - Bucket Column: eage into 10 Buckets 

    - Location: /user/hive/warehouse/db1.db/employees 

6. What is Dynamic Partitioning? 

7. Is Dynamic Partitioning supported in Hive by default? & What are the properties to set to enable Dynamic Partitioning in Hive? 

8. What is a Map side join? and What happens when we use Map side join? Why is it an advantage? 

9. Query: Write a query to load data from Employees_RAW table to Employees (Above created) using Dynamic Partitioning? 

10. Query: Write a query to add the partition to the Employees table, if the data is already located in a different location? 

 	Ex: /user/hive/warehouse/db1.db/employees/edept=1234 

11. How is a Hive Query executed in the background when we submit from Hive CLI or Beeline CLI? 

12. What is the file format you used in your project and what is the reason for choosing that file format? 

13. What are Bloom filters?

SPARK
-----

1. What are the different APIs that are provided by Spark to write our code? 

2. What is difference betwen RDD vs Dataframe vs Dataset ?

3. What is Lazy Evaluation and why it is important to Spark? 

4. What is the difference between RDD Lineage & DAG? 

5. What is a JOB, STAGE & TASK in a Spark Application? 

6. What will be the Maximum number of TASKS which runs in Parallel for a Spark Application? 

7. What is the difference between Persist & Cache?

8. What is the need of Caching the data in Spark? 

9. What is a Broadcast join?

10. What is Transformation & Action? Name any 5 Transformations and Action on Dataframes not on RDDs?

11. How many Categories of Window Functions are available in Spark?

12. Coding : Write Spark code get Top 2 employees for each department based on their Salary?

13. What is functionality of a Catalyst Optimizer or What will Catalyst Optimizer do?

Scala
-----

1. What is the difference between val and var? 

2. What is a First-Class Function in Scala? 

3. What is a Singleton Object? 

4. What is a Companion Object & Companion Class? 

5. What is Currying? 

6. What is a Higher Order Function? 

7. What is a Partial Function? 

8. What is the use Implicit variable? 

9. What is the difference between Class & Case Class? 

10. Coding: How do you declare a Function in Scala and what is its syntax? 

11. Coding: How to create a list if two numbers are given?? 

Example:	val num1 = 10 

val num2 = 20 

    		Result list = [11, 12, 13, ...., 20] 

12. Coding: How to print the alternate numbers in a list using Slicing concept in Scala. 

13. Coding: Write a program to print only the Prime Numbers from the above given list. 

KAFKA:
-----

1. What is Kafka?

2. How the data is stored in Kafka?

3. What is a Topic, Partition & Offset in Kafka?

4. Command: To create a Kafka Topic?

5. In Kafka, brokers / servers are called as Bootstrap server?

6. What is a Consumer Group?

7. What is Idempotent Producer?

8. What is a Leader and Follower? Is leader available for Each Topic or Node or Partition?

9. How to read a specific message from Kafka Topic? or What are needed to read a particular message from given topic?

10. What is ISR? And what will be an ideal value for ISR in Production?

11. What is an Active Controller?

12. What is role of Zookeeper / Zookeeper quorum in Kafka?

13. What is the need of Schema Registry?

14. What are the advantages of Avro File Format particularly in Kafka?

15. What is Schema Evolution?